# Amazon EventBridge (Default Event Bus)<!-- omit in toc -->

## Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

- [1. Introduction](#1-introduction)
- [2. Schema Registry](#2-schema-registry)
- [3. Resource-based Policy](#3-resource-based-policy)
- [4. Amazon EventBridge vs CloudWatch Events](#4-amazon-eventbridge-vs-cloudwatch-events)

# 1. Introduction

- Is a serverless event bus that makes it easier to build event-driven applications at scale using events generated from your applications, integrated Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) applications, and AWS services.
- Delivers a stream of real-time data from event sources such as Zendesk or Shopify to targets like AWS Lambda and other SaaS applications.
- You can set up routing rules to determine where to send your data to build application architectures that react in real-time to your data sources with event publisher and consumer completely decoupled.
- EventBridge is the next evolution of CloudWatch Events.
- **Default event bus**: generated by AWS services (CloudWatch Events).
- **Partner event bus**: receive events from SaaS service or applications (Zendesk, DataDog, Segment, Auth0...).
- Custom Event buses: for your own applications.
- Schema Registry: model event schema.
- Event buses can be accessed by other AWS accounts.
- You can archive events (all/filter) sent to an event bus (indefinitely or set period).
- Ability to replay archived events.
- Rules: how to process the events (like CloudWatch Events).
- EventBridge has a different name to mark the new capabilities.

# 2. Schema Registry

- EventBridge can analyze the events in your bus and infer the **schema**.
- The **Schema Registry** allows you to generate code for your application, that will know in advance how data is structured in the event bus.
- Schema can be versioned.

# 3. Resource-based Policy

- Manage permissions for a specific Event Bus.
- Example: allow/deny events from another AWS account or AWS region.
- Use case: aggregate all events from your AWS Organization in a single AWS account or AWS region.

# 4. Amazon EventBridge vs CloudWatch Events

- Amazon EventBridge builds upon and extends CloudWatch Events.
- It uses the same service API and endpoint, and the same underlying service infrastructure.
- EventBridge allows extension to add event buses for your custom applications and your third-party SaaS apps.
- Event Bridge has the Schema Registry capability.
- EventBridge has a different name to mark the new capabilities.
- Over time, the CloudWatch Events name will be replaced with EventBridge.
